---
layout: post
title:  "Fishbowl/Monikors/Celebrities"
date:   2016-10-05 20:28:30 +0100
requires: [paper]
tags: [acting]
min_p: 2
max_p: 12
time: 40
---

## What You Need
- Around 30 bits of paper

## The Low Down

# Objective
As a team, get more guesses correct over the entire game.

# The Set up  
Each player writes an equal amount of concepts on little bits of paper, folds it in half and puts it in a centre bowl.  

They should attempt to write things that everyone present would know about, it's great adding more complex concepts to make it harder rather than lesser know celebrities, like "a dog doing yoga" or "sausages wearing top hats".  

Split into two equal teams.

# The Play  
Teams take turns sending one person to stand up for **two minutes** and taking a piece of paper out of the bowl and expressing it to the rest of their group. If the group gets it right, they draw another. They may also skip as many times as they like (just don't be annoying about it, or set a hard limit).  

Anything guessed correctly gets taken out of the bowl and added to the team's score. After the bowl is emptied, put slips back in and start next round.  

# Round 1  
No gesturing, but you can say whatever you want, except the words on the paper.

# Round 2  
Only one word allowed per piece of paper (no words from the paper though).

# Round 3  
No words, only gestures

# [Optional] Round 4  
Same as last round, but under a bedsheet. Or behind a sofa only using your hands as finger puppets.
