---
layout: post
title:  "Spyfall"
date:   2016-10-05 20:28:30 +0100
requires: [paper]
tags: [bluff, hidden role]
min_p: 4
max_p: 12
time: 15
---

## What You Need
- Lots of ripped up pieces of paper ~2.5 cm long
- A small coin or marker
- A timer/clock
- Preferably a pack of cards, but some more paper is okay too

<sub>Or with the marvels of modern technology you can [use phones and no creativity](http://spyfall.crabhat.com)</sub>

## The Low Down

# Objective
Find out who the spy is, as they don't know where they are! Whereas the spy must figure out where they are, or let the timer run out.

# The Set up  
Give everyone slips of paper and get them to write locations. Anything from the moon to a pirate ship to someone's bedroom, get around 25 locations if possible. Spread them out in the middle of the table, make sure everyone can read them all and *knows* the location. Put the coin in the middle.

Deal out these plus one red and one black card to each player (or yay/nay slips of paper) as our voting cards. Take out cards from ace to the number of players you've got minus one, **and** one joker (or write 1, 2, ... and a symbol on some slips) to be our identity cards. Shuffle and deal these out.

Everyone closes their eyes. Player with identity card one/ace gets to open their eyes and move the coin onto the location signifying that this is the location where everyone is. They close their eyes and each subsequent player takes turns opening and closing their eyes viewing the location picked by player 1, and the last numbered player moves the coin back to the middle of the table[^1]. The spy **does not see the location**. Set eight minutes on a timer.

# The Play  
Start the clock.

Players take turns start asking each other questions - "Why are you dressed so strangely?" or "How'd you like this weather?" or anything else you can come up with - trying to guess who among them is the spy. The person who got asked the last question gets to ask the next one.

At any time during a round, one player may accuse another of being a spy. Pause the timer. If all other players agree with the accusation[^2] , the round ends and the accused player has to reveal their identity. If the spy is uncovered, all other players win, if they uncover someone other than the spy, the spy wins.

Also; the spy can end a round at anytime (except during voting) by announcing that they know where the secret location is; if their guess is correct, only the spy wins, else, everyone else wins.

If the timer runs out, the spy wins.

## References  
Taken and chopped up from [the BGG overview](https://boardgamegeek.com/boardgame/166384/spyfall)


## Footnotes  

[^1]: Get someone to speak saying "player 1 open your eyes, move the marker, close your eyes" to coordinate this
[^2]: Vote using aforementioned voting cards with everyone showing they are ready to vote and all revealing at the same time
